[Aria] Good morning. We give you a warm greeting to our news talk. Today is a beautiful day to have a discussion about the news of the earth. We will look at new changes in the systems we use every day. We will also talk about the money business and some serious fights between nations. My name is Aria, and I am happy to be here with you.

[Andrew] And my name is Andrew. It is great to join you again. We have a very long list of news today. We will make every story clear and simple. We will use only simple words so that everyone who is learning English can have a good understanding of what is going on. Let us start with our first story about the science of machines.

[Aria] Yes, Andrew. Our first story is about Google and Fitbit. Google has made a new change to its health system, Google Health 5.02. This system is for people who use Fitbit. Fitbit is a small machine that you put on your arm. It keeps a record of your sleep and your steps. For a long time, people who use this machine were angry because some good things were taken away. Now, Google is bringing them back.

[Andrew] That is right, Aria. One important thing is the short sleep. Sometimes, in the middle of the day, you feel tired. You want to have a short sleep for thirty minutes. The old system did not keep a good record of this short sleep. But now, the new system will record your short sleep automatically. This is very good for people who want to keep their body healthy.

[Aria] Yes, Andrew. Another thing is the hourly activity. The machine will make a soft noise or shake on your arm to tell you to get up and walk. If you sit for a long time, it is bad for your blood and your heart. The system wants you to make at least two hundred and fifty steps every hour. This new change makes it easy to see if you are doing this.

[Andrew] I think this is a very wise change by Google. Many people love Fitbit because it is simple. When Google took these things away, many people made a loud protest. They said they would stop using the machine. So, Google had to make this adjustment to keep its customers happy. It shows that when many people speak with one voice, big companies will give attention to them.

[Aria] That is a very good point, Andrew. Now, let us talk about another big change from Google. This is about Android, which is the main system for many pocket machines. Google is making a new rule for the people who make systems for Android. They call it developer verification. It means the makers must prove who they are.

[Andrew] This is a very serious change, Aria. It will start in September. Google wants to make sure that every system you put on your pocket machine is safe. Sometimes, people put systems on their machines from outside the main Google store. This is called sideloading. It can be dangerous because bad people can make systems that steal your money or look at your private writings.

[Aria] Yes, and Google is making a new service called Verifier. This service will put itself on your machine automatically. If you try to put a system on your machine from outside, the Verifier will check it. If it is not safe, it will stop you. Or it will only let you use it for twenty-four hours. This is a big crackdown on sideloading.

[Andrew] Some people are not happy about this. They say that their pocket machine belongs to them, so they should be free to put any system they want on it. They feel Google is taking away their control. But Google says safety is the most important thing. If a bad system damages many machines, people will say Android is bad. So, Google is making these tight rules to protect its name and its users.

[Aria] I see. It is a balance between freedom and safety. Let us move to a new personal machine for play. Asus has released a very strong fold machine across the earth. It is a gaming laptop, but we can call it a strong play machine. It has a very special front glass called a Mini LED display. This glass is extremely bright. It has one thousand and six hundred units of light, which we call nits.

[Andrew] That is incredibly bright, Aria! Most normal machines only have three hundred or four hundred units of light. With one thousand and six hundred units, you can see the picture clearly even if you are sitting under the bright sun in a garden. It also has a very strong picture engine, a GPU, with one hundred and seventy-five units of power. This means the pictures in your plays will move very smoothly.

[Aria] But this machine is not cheap, Andrew. In fact, it costs as much as three new personal machines from Apple! That is a very large amount of money. Who would buy such a dear machine?

[Andrew] Well, some people are very serious about their plays. They want the best experience possible. They also use these strong machines for work, like making moving pictures or designing buildings. For them, the high price is a good exchange for the great power of the machine. Asus is also opening orders in India for other new machines, like the Zephyrus and TUF. They want to be the chief company for play machines.

[Aria] That is very interesting. Now, our next story is about a very old play machine. Do you remember the Game Boy, Andrew? It was a small play machine made by Nintendo many years ago. In 1998, they made a camera for it. It was a very simple camera that made small, black and gray pictures.

[Andrew] Oh, I remember that very well! The pictures were very rough, but it was a great amusement at that time. Now, a company called Epilog has made a new system for pocket machines called Flashback. This system lets you turn your pocket machine into a Game Boy Camera! You do not need the old machine or the old camera.

[Aria] That is so interesting! Why would anyone want to make their beautiful, clear photos look rough and black and gray?

[Andrew] It is because of memory and art, Aria. Sometimes, people get tired of everything being perfect. They like the simple look of the past. It has a special beauty. This new system is free, and it lets you share these old-style pictures with your friends on the net. It is a fun way to look at the past through our new pocket machines.

[Aria] I like that idea. It is good to have a connection with the past. Now, let us turn to the money business. There is a man named Warsh who might become the chief of the Federal Reserve. The Federal Reserve is the chief bank of the US. It has a lot of power over the money of the earth. Warsh has some very different ideas about how this bank should work.

[Andrew] Yes, Aria. Warsh says that the chief bank should let the markets guide its decisions, not the other way around. Right now, the bank makes decisions about the interest rate, and then the markets react. Warsh thinks the bank should look at what the markets are saying first. He wants a simpler, smaller bank that does not try to control everything.

[Aria] This is a very important discussion because the interest rate affects everyone. If the interest rate is high, it is hard for people to buy houses or start businesses because they have to pay more money back. If the interest rate is low, it is easy to get money, but prices might go up too fast. The Federal Reserve recently decided to keep the interest rate steady, but they said they might raise it in the future if necessary.

[Andrew] The stock markets in the US had a good reaction to this news. The S&P 500 and the Nasdaq went up, led by companies that make computer chips. But across the earth, the markets were mixed. Investors are waiting to see what will happen next with the money business and other big events.

[Aria] One of those big events is the peace talks between the US and Iran. There was hope for a peace agreement, but the talks in Switzerland have been postponed. This means they will happen at a later time.

[Andrew] This delay has made investors across the earth very worried. When there is hope for peace, people feel safe and stock markets go up. But when talks are stopped, people fear that war will get worse. This is why the stock markets were mixed today. The price of oil was also very quiet because people are waiting to see if the peace deal is still possible.

[Aria] It is a very complex condition. We will talk more about why these talks were stopped in our conflict section. But first, let us look at another story about the US and its rules on new machines.

[Andrew] Yes, this is about the US export ban on Anthropic's AI models. Anthropic is a company that makes very clever machine systems, like Claude. The government says these systems are too powerful and could be dangerous if other nations get them.

[Aria] This decision by the Trump administration and a man named Lutnick is causing a lot of trouble with friendly nations. For example, a big telecom company in Korea had put a lot of money into Anthropic. They wanted to use these thinking machines to make their own systems better. Now, because of this rule, they cannot get the designs they paid for.

[Andrew] This makes our friends very angry. They feel the US is using its power to keep all the best new science for itself. They say this will damage the agreements and friendships between our countries. But the US government says it must protect its national safety first. They fear that if these clever systems fall into the wrong hands, they could be used to make weapons or attack our computer systems.

[Aria] It is a very difficult balance. If the US stops its friends from using these systems, those friends might start to make their own systems or work with other countries. In the end, it might make the US less powerful, not more.

[Andrew] That is a very wise thought, Aria. Now, let us talk about some good news for young people in the US who have debt from school. The government has made a change to help them pay their student loans. If they agree to let the system take money from their bank automatically every month, they will get a bigger discount on their interest rate.

[Aria] This is a very helpful change, Aria. Going to school in the US is very dear, and many young people start their working lives with a mountain of debt. Even a small cut in the interest rate can save them thousands of dollars over many years. It also helps the government because they are sure to get the payment every month without having to ask for it.

[Andrew] Yes, and the Department of Education has also lowered interest rates for two years for these borrowers. But people need to act quickly because some rules will change after July 1. For example, parents who took out debt for their children, called Parent PLUS loans, need to check their choices before that day to make sure they do not lose their chance for debt forgiveness.

[Aria] It is always wise to read the details of these agreements. Money rules can be very dry and hard to understand, but taking a little time to look at them can make a big difference in your life.

[Andrew] I agree. Now, let us look at a story from China. A domestic two-wheel engine carriage, which we call a motorcycle, has made a new record. It went at a speed of more than three hundred and fifteen kilometers in one hour!

[Aria] That is incredibly fast, Andrew! To go that fast on two wheels requires a very strong engine and a very safe design. If anything goes wrong at that speed, the result would be deadly. This record shows that Chinese industry is now able to make very high-quality engines and machines that can compete with the best in the world.

[Andrew] Yes, it is a big step for Chinese makers. In the past, people thought of Chinese products as cheap but not very advanced. But now, they are producing machines that are at the top of science and power. This motorcycle is a great example of that growth.

[Aria] It is amazing to see how fast things are changing. Now, let us move to our world and conflict section. The fighting between the Israeli military and Hezbollah in southern Lebanon has become very violent. This is the main reason why the peace talks between the US and Iran were postponed.

[Andrew] Yes, the condition in Lebanon is very bad. There have been many deadly attacks. Because of this, Vance, who is the co-chief of the US under Trump, canceled his trip to Switzerland where the talks were supposed to take place. He felt it was not the right time to negotiate when the fighting was so intense.

[Aria] A man named Aoun, who is a leader in Lebanon, said that the Israeli attacks are harming the efforts to make a peace agreement. It seems that every time the two sides get close to an agreement, new violence breaks out and ruins the hope for peace. It is a very sad cycle that has been going on for a long time.

[Andrew] It is indeed sad, Aria. The people who suffer the most are the simple men, women, and children who live in those areas. They have to flee their homes and live in fear of the next attack. We can only hope that the leaders will find a way to stop the fighting and come back to the table for discussion.

[Aria] Yes, peace is what everyone needs. Our next story is about the war between Ukraine and Russia. Ukraine has made its largest attack ever on Moscow, the chief city of Russia. They used many flying attack machines to strike a large oil building in the city.

[Andrew] This was a very big event, Aria. The attack caused massive explosions that shook the city. It even shattered the feeling of safety that people in Moscow had. For a long time, the war was far away from them, but now they can see and feel the effects of it in their own streets.

[Aria] Yes, and there were reports of black rain falling on the city after the attack. This black rain was caused by the oil and dust from the burning building mixing with the clouds. It made the residents very worried about their health and the safety of their water.

[Andrew] There is also a great fear of a fuel shortage in Moscow now. If the oil buildings are damaged, there will not be enough oil for heating houses in the winter or for driving carriages. This shows that Ukraine is able to strike deep inside Russia and cause real trouble for the Russian government. It is a major change in the war.

[Aria] It is a very serious development. Our last story today is a very strange one. A town chief in the US has been accused of faking her own kidnapping. She said that bad men took her away by force and demanded money.

[Andrew] But the police did some observation and discovered that she made up the whole story! Why would a town chief do such a foolish thing?

[Aria] Well, the police say she did it to cover up a scheme to steal money from the town. She had taken a large amount of public money for her own use, and she knew the government was going to check the books. So, she thought that if she was taken away by force, people would not ask questions about the missing money.

[Andrew] That is a very bad and foolish plan! Now, she is in prison and faces serious punishment for her crimes. It is a great shame for her family and the town that trusted her. It shows that crime does not pay, and the truth will always come out in the end.

[Aria] That is very true, Andrew. The truth always finds a way. Well, that is all for our news today. We hope you enjoyed our discussion and learned some new English words. Remember, learning a language takes time and regular work, but you can do it!

[Andrew] Yes, keep listening and practicing every day. Thank you for being with us, and we will see you tomorrow. Goodbye!